.. default-intersphinx:: rbt0.5


===========================
RBTools 0.5.2 Release Notes
===========================

**Release date**: August 15, 2013


New Features
============

* Added support for posting Git changes to Bitbucket.

  Previously, our support for Bitbucket was limited to Mercurial repositories,
  but starting in Review Board 1.7.13, you can post to Git repositories as
  well. This only works with :rbtcommand:`rbt post`.

* Added ``--help`` to :rbtcommand:`rbt` and all commands.

  We now support ``rbt help <command>``, ``rbt --help <command>``, and
  ``rbt <command> --help``.

  This also supports the short-hand flag, ``--help``.

* Added the :rbtcommand:`rbt get` tool.

  This command takes a path to an API resource, requests the resource, and
  prints it as JSON. The path can either be a full URL, or a path relative
  to the API URL for the Review Board server in the current source tree
  (such as ``/review-requests/123/``).

  Query arguments may also be specified for the request. Each query argument
  appears after ``--`` on the command line and takes the form
  ``--<query-arg>=<value>``. For example,
  ``rbt api-get /review-requests/ -- --counts-only=1`` would result in a
  request to ``http://example.com/api/review-requests/?counts-only=1``.

* Added git-p4 support to :rbtcommand:`rbt post`.

  Changes on a branch of a git-p4 repository can now be posted to
  Review Board against a configured Perforce repository.

  This doesn't yet support tracking moved files. Any moved files in a
  change will appear as groups of added and deleted files.

  Patch by Chris van Es.

* Improved error feedback when posting/updating a review request.

  :rbtcommand:`rbt post` now shows proper error messages from the server
  when there's an issue creating or updating a review request. It also
  logs additional detailed information in the debug output.

  Patch by Andrew Grigorev.

* Added an :option:`--svn-show-copies-as-adds
  <rbt post --svn-show-copies-as-adds>` flag to :rbtcommand:`rbt post`.
  (:bug:`3024`)

  When copying a branch and posting for review, :rbtcommand:`rbt post` will
  inform the user that it cannot post the change by default, and to pass
  :option:`--svn-show-copies-as-adds
  <rbt post --svn-show-copies-as-adds>`, which will include the copied
  branch. This helps avoid the problem of accidentally posting a massive,
  potentially unnecessary change for review.

  Patch by Sudhir Sangappa.


Bug Fixes
=========

.. program:: rbt post

* Fixed a breakage where the git-svn support attempted to access the value
  for :option:`--parent`, which isn't available for git-svn.
  Patch by Hanno S.

* Fixed a breakage in Plastic support, due to a code refactor. (:bug:`3044`)

* When generating a Perforce diff, symlinks are no longer included, as these
  could easily lead to crashes. Patch by Damian Johnson.


Contributors
============

* Andrew Grigorev
* Christian Hammond
* Chris van Es
* Damian Johnson
* David Trowbridge
* Hanno S
* Steven MacLeod
* Steven Walter
* Sudhir Sangappa
