.. default-intersphinx:: rbt0.6


===========================
RBTools 0.6.3 Release Notes
===========================

**Release date:** November 12, 2014


Bug Fixes
=========

rbt post
--------

.. program:: rbt post

* Warn about a dirty working directory when posting with Mercurial.

  As with Git, :rbtcommand:`rbt post` against a Mercurial repository only
  posts committed changes. If your working directory contains uncommitted
  changes, :rbtcommand:`rbt post` will now show a warning.

  Patch by Bruce Cran.

* Print out "your review request still exists" when there are field errors.
  (:bug:`3428`)

  If any fields specified on the command line have problems and the review
  request is created, :rbtcommand:`rbt post` will now inform you that the
  review request exists, and provide the URL.

* Don't fail when using ``--diff-filename=-`` and credentials on the command
  line. (:bug:`3313`)

  Passing a diff file in over stdin was broken in the case where the login
  credentials were specified on the command line.


ClearCase
---------

* Re-enable support for matching repository by the ClearCase vobstag.
  (:bug:`3533`)

  RBTools 0.6 regressed a feature that would try to match the repository in
  Review Board using the ClearCase vobstag. This has been fixed.

  Patch by Nicolas Dély.


Git
---

* Fix the semantics of the ``GIT_USE_EXT_DIFF`` config key.

  Theoretically, users could set ``GIT_USE_EXT_DIFF`` to ``True`` in their
  :file:`.reviewboardrc` file in order to allow using external diff programs,
  but the interpretation of this value was inverted. It now works as expected.


Mercurial
---------

* Fix traceback when :command:`hg svn` returns an unexpected error.

  When hgsubversion isn't properly installed, rbtools was crashing. It now
  prints out an error message instead.

* Provide a better error message when hg upstream is empty. (:bug:`3565`)

  If the upstream repository is empty, it's impossible to post a diff. In this
  case, :rbtcommand:`rbt post` would print a cryptic error message. This now
  explains better what went wrong.

  Patch by Barret Rennie.


Perforce
--------

* Fix handling of deleted files in submitted Perforce changelists.
  (:bug:`3497`)

  Support for posting submitted Perforce changesets was added in 0.6.2, but a
  bug prevented it from working when the changelist included deleted files.


Subversion
----------

* Re-enable support for matching repository by the SVN repository UUID.
  (:bug:`3533`)

  RBTools 0.6 regressed a feature that would try to match the repository in
  Review Board using the repository UUID. This has been fixed.

  Patch by Nicolas Dély.

* Allow return codes of '1' from :command:`svn propget`. (:bug:`3566`)

  SVN 1.9 is changing the semantics of the propget return value, making it so
  that '1' indicates success. This is no longer treated as an error in RBTools.


Python API
----------

* Fix errors with HTTP DELETE calls. (:bug:`3450`)

  The API framework was attempting to decode the response from DELETE
  operations, but these do not contain a response.


Contributors
============

* Barret Rennie
* Bruce Cran
* David Trowbridge
* Nicolas Dély
