.. default-intersphinx:: rbt0.7


===========================
RBTools 0.7.5 Release Notes
===========================

**Release date:** October 26, 2015


New Features
============

* Users can now specify the search path for :file:`.reviewboardrc` files.

  The :envvar:`$RBTOOLS_CONFIG_PATH` environment variable now controls the
  search path. It's a list of paths separated by the system's native path
  separator (``':'`` on Linux/MacOS X, ``';'`` on Windows). These paths are
  searched prior to any default paths.

  This is handy for forcing the :file:`.reviewboardrc` file in your home
  directory to be searched first.

  Patch by Nils Philippsen.


Bug Fixes
=========

General
-------

* Fixed displaying error output containing non-ASCII characters. (:bug:`3907`)

* On Windows, home directory detection now prefers the :envvar:`%HOME%`
  environment variable to :envvar:`%APPDATA%`.

  Prior to this release, :envvar:`%HOME%` was always ignored in favor of
  :envvar:`%APPDATA%`, which caused problems in certain setups.

  Patch by Vadim Zeitlin.


rbt api-get
-----------

* The help output no longer mistakenly shows that ``--`` is required before
  query arguments.


rbt post
--------

.. program:: rbt post

* Fixed a crash when using :option:`--diff-filename`. (:bug:`3908`)


Git
---

* Git version checking is no longer performed unless Git is installed,
  preventing a harmless but visible error message for systems without Git.


Mercurial
---------

* Fixed path separator differences when posting a change against Mercurial
  on Windows. (:bug:`3894`)

  Patch by Ali Kamali.

* Fixed a regression with looking for empty files.

  When looking for empty files in a change (which must be handled specially),
  RBTools would get a null result, which wasn't being handled correctly.


Perforce
--------

* Fixed posting submitted Perforce changes.

  Posting submitted changes for review regressed in 0.7.x. They can now be
  posted again.

* Fixed posting Perforce paths that are not included in the client view.
  (:bug:`3864`)

  It's once again possible to post a committed revision for review when the
  commit contains files not in the client view.


Subversion
----------

.. program:: rbt post

* Fixed Unicode issues when parsing repository info when using
  :option:`--repository-url`. (:bug:`3969`)

  Patch by Griffin Myers.

* Fixed issues processing when a changeset has history scheduled with a
  commit.

  Patch by Griffin Myers.


Team Foundation Server
----------------------

* Fixed a number of issues with diff generation on TFS.

  The method previously used to generate diffs didn't deal with a lot of cases
  that could come up when using different editors or platforms, such as files
  that don't end with a newline or files that start with a byte-order marker.

  RBTools now requires GNU diff for TFS diff generation.


Contributors
============

* Ali Kamali
* Anthony Hache
* Barret Rennie
* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Griffin Myers
* Nils Philippsen
* Vadim Zeitlin
