.. default-intersphinx:: rbt0.7


===========================
RBTools 0.7.4 Release Notes
===========================

**Release date:** June 11, 2015


Compatibility Notes
===================

* Team Foundation Server support does not yet work with Visual Studio
  2013 Update 4 or higher.

  In Visual Studio 2013 Update 4, the command line tool we used,
  :command:`tf.cmd`, has been rewritten, and many of the features we
  depended on were dropped.

  For the moment, you will need to stick with Update 3 or lower in order to
  continue using `Power Pack`_'s TFS support. Alternatively, if you're running
  Update 4, you can try installing `Team Explorer Everywhere`_.

.. _`Power Pack`: https://www.reviewboard.org/powerpack/
.. _`Team Explorer Everywhere`:
   https://www.visualstudio.com/en-us/products/team-explorer-everywhere-vs.aspx


Bug Fixes
=========

General
-------

* Fixed a Python 2.6 compatibility problem. (:bug:`3753`)

* When there are communication errors with a Review Board server, the error
  message will now contain more details on what went wrong. (:bug:`3840`)

* Fixed additional Unicode issues when running in a non-UTF-8 environment.

  Patch by Bartosz Gołek.


rbt post
--------

.. program:: rbt post

* The :option:`--diff-filename` and :option:`--update` flags are
  now mutually-exclusive. (:bug:`3755`)

  The :option:`--update` option didn't make sense when using a diff
  filename, since the review request could not be guessed. There's now an
  error shown when trying to use both.


Mercurial
---------

* The :option:`--tracking-branch` option wasn't overriding the built-in
  default tracking branch.

  Patch by Andrew Bettison.


Team Foundation Server
----------------------

* Modifications to directories or other non-files no longer break diff
  generation.

* Fixed issues with file encodings and newlines.


Contributors
============

* Andrew Bettison
* Bartosz Gołek
* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
