.. default-intersphinx:: rbt0.7


============================
RBTools 0.7.11 Release Notes
============================

**Release date:** January 18, 2018


New Features
============

rbt post
--------

.. program:: rbt post

* Added support for :option:`--diff-only` on all repositories.

  Previously, this option only worked for Perforce. It now works for Git,
  Subversion, and everything else, preventing any fields either computed from
  a commit, specified in :file:`.reviewboardrc`, or specified on the command
  line from being considered when updating a review request.

* Diff sizes are now logged when posting using :option:`--debug`.

  This will help us to diagnose issues sent to us when posting changes for
  review.


Compatibility Changes
=====================

* Git-style diffs are now used when posting changes against Mercurial
  repositories.

  Git-style diffs contain more useful information, beyond what Mercurial-style
  diffs provide, leading to a better experience on Review Board. Tools that
  make use of posted Mercurial diffs may be impacted if they don't understand
  Git-style diffs.

  The diffs also no longer contain the date and time that the diff was
  generated, so that checksums are consistent across multiple generations of
  the same diff.

  Patch by André Klitzing.


Bug Fixes
=========

rbt post
--------

.. program:: rbt post

* Fix incomplete help output around :option:`--tracking-branch`'s default
  behavior when using Git.

  The old output said that on Git, ``origin/master`` will be used as the
  default tracking branch if one is not otherwise specified. However, the
  actual logic first attempts to use the remote branch that the current branch
  tracks (if any). The help output has been fixed to reflect this.

* Fixed a crash that could occur when checking for Subversion repositories.

  When trying to determine the type of a repository, RBTools will try to check
  if it's running in a Subversion repository. Depending on the locales chosen,
  this could previously result in a crash.

* Fixed the :option:`--diff-only` option to only update diffs.

  This option has been around a long time, and was previously only for
  Perforce. It hasn't actually worked correctly in a long time, and a recent
  change caused some behavior that conflicted with the option, resulting in
  Perforce change descriptions overriding the fields on a review request.
  The option should now work as described.

* Posting Subversion commits for review now automatically fills in the
  summary and description of the review request.

  Based on work by Graham Seaman.


rbt install
-----------

* Fixed a hash validation issue when trying to install :command:`rb-tfs` on
  Windows.

  This could happen due to the zip file containing :command:`rb-tfs` being
  interpreted as text in some cases. We now ensure we're treating the file
  explicitly as binary when validating the hash.


Mercurial
---------

* Fixed generating Git-compatible diffs containing empty files. (:bug:`4600`)

  Patch by André Klitzing.


Team Foundation Server
----------------------

* :command:`tf.exe` from Visual Studio 2015 no longer takes priority over
  :command:`rb-tfs`.

  This fixes problems when using RBTools on Visual Studio 2017.


Contributors
============

* André Klitzing
* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Graham Seaman
