.. default-intersphinx:: rbt0.7


===========================
RBTools 0.7.8 Release Notes
===========================

**Release date:** January 11, 2017


Installers
==========

This release introduces some much-needed fixes and improvements to our
installers.


Windows
-------

* The Windows installer has been updated to include Python 2.7.13, which
  includes bug fixes and enhanced support for SSL certificate verification.

* Updated the code signing certificate used for our builds.


macOS
-----

* Improved Python version compatibility.

  The installer will now install RBTools in such a way where the Python 2.7
  version will be used for all modern versions of macOS, and the Python 2.6
  version will be used for older (Snow Leopard era) versions.

  Previously, the Python 2.6 version was always the dominant version, leading
  to compatibility problems when trying to integrate with the RBTools Python
  API.

* Fixed the ``tqdm`` dependency issue many users encountered with recent
  versions of the RBTools installer.


New Features
============

rbt patch
---------

* :option:`rbt patch --print` can now be run outside of a source tree.

  This is useful when you want to fetch the patch from a review request, but
  don't necessary have or need a checkout of the source tree.

  Patch by Stephen Kiernan.


rbt setup-repo
--------------

* The generated :file:`.reviewboardrc` file now stores the repository type.

  The ``REPOSITORY_TYPE`` setting is now set for new :file:`.reviewboardrc`
  files, speeding up RBTools commands by eliminating the need to guess the
  repository type, and fixing issues when nesting repositories.

  If you already have a :file:`.reviewboardrc`, you can manually edit it to
  include this setting.


Bug Fixes
=========

General
-------

* Fixed a crash when passing Unicode characters as arguments on the command
  line.


rbt post
--------

.. program:: rbt post

* :option:`--guess-fields` (:option:`-g`) no longer overwrites
  :option:`--guess-summary` or :option:`--guess-description` if those are
  specified.


Team Foundation Server
----------------------

* Fixed generating and uploading diffs containing Unicode
  :abbr:`BOM (Byte Order Mark)` characters.


Contributors
============

* Barret Rennie
* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Stephen Kiernan
