.. default-intersphinx:: rbt0.7


===========================
RBTools 0.7.2 Release Notes
===========================

**Release date:** March 9, 2015


New Features
============

* Added two new commands: :rbtcommand:`rbt login` and
  :rbtcommand:`rbt logout`.

  These commands make it easy to log in or out of Review Board without
  having to perform other operations on the server.

  :rbtcommand:`rbt login` will prompt the user for credentials, log in to
  Review Board, and store the session cookie. The credentials can
  optionally be provided by passing
  :option:`--username <rbt login --username>` and
  :option:`--password <rbt login --password>`.

  :rbtcommand:`rbt logout` will log out of the Review Board server,
  invalidating the cookie. The cookie will then be removed from the cookies
  file.


Bug Fixes
=========

General
-------

* Fixed a Unicode issue when prompting for input.

  Patch by Halvor Lund.

* The :file:`.reviewboardrc` search path now uses the original behavior of
  checking for the file in the current directory or a parent before checking
  the one in the home directory.

* Fixed file exclusion so that it's consistent across all types of
  repositories. (:bug:`3776`)

  Previously, patterns matching the root of a repository led to inconsistent
  behavior across the various repositories. Now all paths begining with
  a path character (``\`` or ``/``) are treated relative to the root of
  the checkout. The exception is CVS, which treats it as relative to the
  current directory, as that's how it handles diff generation in general.


rbt land
--------

.. program:: rbt land

* Fixed using :option:`--edit` when landing remote changes.

  Previously, this option was being ignored, requiring the commit to be
  amended later.

* The change description is no longer printed to the console when using
  :option:`--edit`.


rbt post
--------

* Fixed issues posting changes against Git repositories hosted on Bitbucket,
  Beanstalk, and Unfuddle.

  When running against Review Board 2.0.13 or older, we must go into a
  compatibility mode for diff validation. We recommend upgrading to
  2.0.14 or higher.


API
---

* Fixed a Unicode issue when assembling HTTP requests.

  Patch by Halvor Lund.

* API caching is now disabled for Review Board 2.0.13 and lower.

  We found some other caching problems that were worth working around in
  2.0.13 by disabling the cache. It now requires the upcoming 2.0.14 and
  higher.


Subversion
----------

* Fixed handling of empty files in Subversion diffs in certain cases.

* Fixed path concatenation to prevent a leading double slash.

  Patch by Griffin Myers.

* Fixed trying to use ``--svn-show-copies-as-adds`` when using versions of
  SVN prior to 1.7.

  Patch by Griffin Myers.

* ``--svn-show-copies-as-adds`` now respects included and excluded files.
  (:bug:`3649`)

  Patch by Griffin Myers.

* Fixed several bugs when using ``--svn-show-copies-as-adds`` with including
  unwanted items.

  Patch by Griffin Myers.


Contributors
============

* Barret Rennie
* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Griffin Myers
* Halvor Lund
