.. default-intersphinx:: rbt2.0


===========================
RBTools 2.0.1 Release Notes
===========================

**Release date:** July 27, 2021


New Features
============

* Added support for using Breezy_ (a Bazaar fork).

  Breezy is now supported through our existing Bazaar support, and will
  generate diffs compatible with Review Board.

* The Windows installer has been upgraded from Python 3.8.6 to 3.8.10.

  3.8.10 is the latest version with installers available that covers Windows
  7 and up.

  If you need a newer version, we recommend installing Python from the
  Windows Store and following the standard :command:`pip`-based installation
  instructions for RBTools.


.. _Breezy: https://www.breezy-vcs.org/


rbt patch
---------

.. program:: rbt patch

* Added support for writing a patch to a file using the :option:`--write`
  argument.

  Based on a patch by André Klitzing.


Bug Fixes
=========

General
-------

* Fixed some harmless (but noisy) warnings on Python 3 when running
  with Python warnings enabled.

  Patch by Tor Colvin.


Bazaar/Breezy
-------------

* Fixed a compatibility issue between Git and Breezy.

  If installed, Breezy could claim to manage Git repositories during
  scanning (which would fail). This support has been disabled during
  repository scanning, allowing our built-in Git support to work as
  normal.


Mercurial
---------

* Fixed a regression in using :ref:`rbt land <rbt-land>` and
  :ref:`rbt patch <rbt-patch>` for Mercurial on Python 3. (:bug:`4894`)

  Patch by Gary Kramlich.


Contributors
============

* André Klitzing
* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Gary Kramlich
* Tor Colvin
