.. default-intersphinx:: rbt5.x rb-latest

=========================
RBTools 5.2 Release Notes
=========================

**Release date:** March 24, 2025


Installation
============

Follow our :ref:`installation guide <rbtools-installation>` to install RBTools.

To learn more, see:

* `Documentation <https://www.reviewboard.org/docs/rbtools/5.x/>`_
* `RBTools on PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/rbtools/>`_
* `RBTools on GitHub <https://github.com/reviewboard/rbtools/>`_


Bug Fixes
=========

rbt patch
---------

* Fixed running :option`rbt patch --print` when the Review Board server URL is
  defined via the :rbtconfig:`TREES` setting.

* Fixed patching on SVN repositories when the working directory has no overlap
  with the patch's base directory.

  :rbtcommand:`rbt patch` attempted to be smart about applying patches when the
  current working directory was different from the working directory that the
  Review Request was originally created from. Unfortunately, this broke
  applying patches across different branches. This has been fixed to skip any
  filtering when there is no overlap between the patch's base directory and the
  current working directory.


rbt post
--------

* Fixed MIME type guessing when :command:`file` was not available.

  RBTools 5.1 added a fallback method for detecting the MIME type of binary
  files included in diffs for when the :command:`file` command is not present.
  This had a couple issues that could cause crashes in some situations.


IBM ClearCase / HCL DevOps Code ClearCase
-----------------------------------------

* Fixed repository matching when posting against Review Board servers older
  than 7.0.1.


Mercurial
---------

* Fixed file revision parsing to avoid unwanted debug output from the
  :command:`hg` command.


Contributors
============

* André Klitzing
* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Michelle Aubin
