.. default-intersphinx:: rbt5.x rb-latest

=========================
RBTools 5.3 Release Notes
=========================

**Release date:** July 14, 2025


Installation
============

Follow our :ref:`installation guide <rbtools-installation>` to install
RBTools.

To learn more, see:

* `Documentation <https://www.reviewboard.org/docs/rbtools/5.x/>`_
* `RBTools on PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/rbtools/>`_
* `RBTools on GitHub <https://github.com/reviewboard/rbtools/>`_


New Features
============

* Added support for newer versions of Azure DevOps Server / Team Foundation
  Server.

  RBTools can now work with modern versions of :command:`tf.exe` from
  Visual Studio, making it easy to post your changes without maintaining
  multiple copies of TFVC.

  See the :ref:`rbtools-tfs` documentation for more information.

* Renamed our Cliosoft SOS support to Keysight SOS.

  Cliosoft SOS was purchased by Keysight, and is now `Keysight SOS`_.
  RBTools now documents this as Keysight SOS and lists it in the list of
  supported repository types.

  See :ref:`rbtools-workflow-sos` to learn more about using Keysight SOS.


.. _Keysight SOS: https://www.keysight.com/us/en/products/software/pathwave-design-software/design-data-and-ip-management/design-data-management-sos.html


Bug Fixes
=========

Installation
------------

* Fixed an issue running the :ref:`rbt <rbt>` command after using the
  :ref:`RBTools for Windows installer <rbtools-installer>`.

* Added back support for the :rbtcommand:`rbt install` command, used to
  install Azure DevOps Server / Team Foundation Server support.


Azure DevOps Server / Team Foundation Server
--------------------------------------------

* Fixed parsing commit history containing Windows-style newlines.


Git
---

* Fixed using :option:`rbt post --exclude` with filenames containing spaces.
  (:bug:`5045`)


Contributors
============

* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Michelle Aubin
