.. default-intersphinx:: rbt6.x rb-latest

=========================
RBTools 6.0 Release Notes
=========================

**Release date:** TBD


Installation
============

Follow our :ref:`installation guide <rbtools-installation>` to install
RBTools.

To learn more, see:

* `Documentation <https://www.reviewboard.org/docs/rbtools/6.x/>`_
* `RBTools on PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/rbtools/>`_
* `RBTools on GitHub <https://github.com/reviewboard/rbtools/>`_


Compatibility
=============

* RBTools supports Python 3.10 through 3.14.

  Support for Python 3.8 and 3.9 has been dropped. For continued support on
  those versions, please use RBTools 5.x.

* Added a dependency on :pypi:`appdirs`. This replaces a previously bundled
  copy.

* Added a dependency on :pypi:`typelets` 1.1.x.


New Features
============

* Added support for `Jujutsu`_

  Jujutsu_ is a version control system which works seamlessly with Git servers
  while providing new and innovative concepts and commands. Because of its
  interoperability, it's a powerful tool that can be integrated into individual
  developer workflows without requiring major organizational changes.

  RBTools 6.0 includes full support for working with Jujutsu clones, including
  posting, patching, and landing changes.

.. _Jujutsu: https://docs.jj-vcs.dev/latest/


* Full documentation and type hinting for all resources.

  The Python API part of RBTools automatically generates client-side bindings
  by introspecting API payloads. While this allowed the bindings to be used for
  all APIs, including those in custom extensions, it made it difficult to work
  with because things like method names were not properly documented.

  The API now includes custom resource subclasses to match all resource
  endpoints in Review Board. These provide documentation and type hints for the
  entire API surface.

  Under the hood, the API still uses introspection, so you can still use it
  with your extension-provided API endpoints.


* Allow the :option:`--open-browser` and :option:`--web-login` options to be
  used for all commands.

  Web-based login (introduced in RBTools 5.0) was only supported for the
  :rbtcommand:`rbt login` command, which meant that the login prompts used for
  other commands when there was no current session would not allow it. This has
  been changed so if the server supports web-based login, it can be used at any
  point.


rbt patch
---------

.. program:: rbt patch

* Apply patches to binary files.

  As of Review Board 7.0 and RBTools 5.0, posted changes may include binary
  files in diffs. This is limited to reviewable file types such as images.
  "rbtcommand:`rbt patch` will now download these files and apply them as part
  of the patch.

  This is supported for Jujutsu, Git, Mercurial, Perforce, and Subversion.


Bug Fixes
=========

rbt list-repo-types
-------------------

.. program:: rbt list-repo-types

* Fixed a crash when dependencies for supported repository types were missing.


rbt patch
---------

.. program:: rbt patch

* Fixed some potential issues with commit messages and authors when squashing
  multiple commits.

* Fixed patching on Mercurial to use `--config patch.eol=auto` in order to
  more reliably apply patches in files with varying newline styles.

  Patch by André Klitzing



Contributors
============

* André Klitzing
* Christian Hammond
* David Trowbridge
* Michelle Aubin
