.. _rbt-post:
.. program:: rbt post

====
post
====

:command:`rbt post` simplifies both creating and updating review requests.
It can look at your source directory, generate a diff, and upload it to a new
or existing review request on an associated Review Board server. This saves a
lot of time over the web UI, and for some types of code repositories (such as
Perforce), it's actually required in order to produce a compatible diff.

Usage::

   $ rbt post [options] [changenum | [<file> ...]]


Posting and Updating Review Requests
====================================

Depending on the repository type, :command:`rbt post` will either require
a changeset number, or it will rely on the changes in the current source
tree. The end result is that :command:`rbt post` will build a diff and
post it to a Review Board server. The diff and any additional review
request information will be saved on the server as a draft, which can then
be published.

After posting a new review request or updating an existing one,
:command:`rbt post` will display the URL of the review request. If the
:option:`-o` parameter is passed, the default web browser will be opened
to that URL.

The following subsections will explain how :command:`rbt post` is used
with different repository types.


Perforce
--------

Posting Changesets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Perforce has a concept of changesets, which are server-stored descriptions of
a change along with an ID number and associated files. For Perforce, Review
Board stores changeset numbers of a posted change and can use these to
associate particular changes with review requests.

To post a review request for a specific change, or to update an existing
review request for that change, type::

    $ rbt post CHANGENUM

Where ``CHANGENUM`` is a pending or shelved changeset number in Perforce.

.. note::

    When ``CHANGENUM`` refers to a shelved changeset which does not have opened
    files in the client, any moved files within the change will be shown as a
    deleted file and an added file. This is due to limitations in Perforce's
    interface for shelved changesets.

The diff will be generated and uploaded to Review Board, and the review
request information will be updated based on the changeset description.

:command:`rbt post` must be used if you're using Perforce with
Review Board, as the diff generated by :command:`p4 diff` doesn't provide
the information necessary to properly display a side-by-side diff.


Posting Paths
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are cases where you may want to post individual paths containing files
instead of changesets. Take the following cases, for example:

* You have code or other files that must be checked in before they're
  reviewed and have undergone multiple changes.
* You're working in a side branch for a while, possibly with other people,
  and need to review the code before it's integrated into the main branch.
* You want to post a really old, previously abandoned change for review
  that previously went unreviewed.

To post with a path, :command:`rbt post` should be run with a standard
Perforce depot path as a parameter, which may contain revision information.
The following paths are supported:


**Uploading a file as a "new" file**::

   //path/to/file

**Uploading all files in a directory as "new" files**::

   //path/to/dir/...

**Uploading a file from a revision as a "new" file (not as common)**::

   //path/to/file/[@#]rev

**Uploading a diff of a file between two revisions**::

   //path/to/file[@#]rev,[@#]rev

**Uploading a diff of all files between two revisions in a directory**::

   //path/to/dir/...[#@]rev,[#@]rev


CVS and Subversion
------------------

CVS and Subversion don't have a concept of changesets, so instead the
working copy's uncommitted changes are posted for review. To post a
review request with all uncommitted files in a tree, simply run::

    $ rbt post

This will create a new review request and post the diff of the uncommitted
changes. If you  want to update an existing review request with new changes
instead, use the :option:`-r` parameter. For example, to update
review request #42, type::

    $ rbt post -r 42

If you need to post specific files, leaving other uncommitted files out of
the review request, you can include them on the command line, like so::

    $ rbt post src/foo.c data/bar.png


.. _DVCS:

Distributed Version Control Systems
-----------------------------------

When using a distributed version control system, such as Git or Mercurial,
:command:`rbt post` will by default post the diff between the current
branch and the ``master`` branch. To post a new review request with the
diff between the current branches commit, and the master branch, simply run::

   $ rbt post

If you'd like to update an existing review request with new changes instead,
use the :option:`-r` parameter. For example, to update review request #42,
type::

   $ rbt post -r 42

You can also use the :option:`-u` parameter to automatically determine the
existing review request based on the patch summary and description::

    $ rbt post -u

Additionally, :command:`rbt post` can generate a summary and description for
your review request based on the commit messages from the involved commits.
This is accomplished using the :option:`-g` parameter. To post a new review
request with a generated summary and description, simply run::

   $ rbt post -g

In the case where you are working on code based on a branch that isn't
available to the repository Review Board has configured, you'll want to take
advantage of :command:`rbt post`'s parent diff support.

.. index:: parent diffs

A parent diff is a diff between some known upstream revision that Review Board
has access to and the parent of your branch. It's used to provide a working
baseline for your branch's diff.

For example, in the case of Git, you may be working on the ``topicB`` branch,
which has an ancestry that looks like::

   o master
    \
     o---o topicA
          \
           o---o topicB

If you want to upload a diff of everything between ``topicA`` and ``topicB``,
you would need to tell :command:`rbt post` to also generate a parent diff
between ``master`` and ``topicA``.

This is done by using the :option:`--parent` parameter with the branch name.
For example, in this case you would simply do::

    $ rbt post --parent=topicA

That would generate a parent diff between ``master`` and ``topicA``, and
a normal diff of your changes between ``topicA`` and ``topicB``. The changes
in the parent diff won't appear as changed lines in the diff viewer, meaning
that users will only see changes made between ``topicB`` and ``topicA``.


Tracking Branches
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When using Git, :command:`rbt post` makes the assumption that the closest
upstream branch for the diff will be ``origin/master``. This may be wrong if
you are working on a feature branch or have a remote named something other than
``origin``.

In this case, you will want to use the :option:`--tracking-branch` option,
which specifies the remote branch name. For example::

    $ rbt post --tracking-branch=upstream/master


ClearCase
---------

.. versionchanged:: 0.6
   ClearCase support used to use the :option:`--tracking-branch` and
   :option:`--revision-range` options for specifying branches and manual
   changesets, respectively. As of version 0.6, these are just passed in as
   arguments.

:command:`rbt post` provides basic support for posting ClearCase reviews.
If you want to post a review of all currently checked out files in your view
simply run::

     rbt post

If you collect changesets, for example, using ClearCase/ClearQuest integration,
you can pass the changeset in as arguments. Each argument will be an
``file@@revision1:file@@revision2`` pair::

    $ rbt post /vobs/proj/file.c@@/main/0:/vobs/proj/file.c@@/main/1

Multiple files can be posted by adding additional file/revision pairs::

    $ rbt post /vobs/proj/file.c@@/main/0:/vobs/proj/file.c@@/main/1 /vobs/proj/file.h@@/main/0:/vobs/proj/file.h@@/main/1

Another way for post-commit review is send changes developed on branch by
specifying the branch name with a ``brtype:`` prefix::

    $ rbt post brtype:my_dev_branch

.. note::

   :command:`rbt post` tries to match Review Board's repository based on
   the VOB's UUID. If this doesn't work, the VOB's name will be used.
   If you need to override this behavior, you can use the ``REPOSITORY``
   or ``REPOSITORY_URL`` settings in :file:`.reviewboardrc` or pass the
   :option:`--repository` or :option:`--repository-url` command-line options.


.. index:: post-commit review
.. _posting-committed-code:

Posting Committed Code
======================

By default, :command:`rbt post` assumes that you're posting uncommitted
code. This is called a :term:`pre-commit review`. However, it's sometimes
useful to post code that has already been committed to a repository, such
as in an experimental branch. This is a :term:`post-commit review`.

In order to do this, you can pass in revisions as arguments, which will
generate a diff based on a range of committed revisions. This allows a single
review request to show a diff representing the entire history of a branch, if
desired.

Usage is easy. Simply type::

    $ rbt post STARTREV STOPREV

Where ``STARTREV`` is the beginning revision in the range, and
``STOPREV`` is the ending revision, inclusive. If you only need to post
a single revision, you can type::

    $ rbt post REVISION

The syntax for revisions and revision ranges is as close to possible as the
native syntax for the underlying revision control system. You can therefore
pass in ranges either as separate arguments, or using a native range syntax
(such as ``R1:R2`` for SVN or ``R1..R2`` for Git).


.. _posting-existing-diffs:

Posting Existing Diffs
======================

:command:`rbt post` will generate diffs automatically based on the
repository type, but if you need to post a pre-existing diff, you can
use the :option:`--diff-filename` parameter to specify the path to
the diff file.

For example::

    $ rbt post --diff-filename=mycode.diff

You can also use the special value of ``-`` to pipe a diff into STDIN::

    $ cat mycode.diff | rbt post --diff-filename=-

Using STDIN will require either a valid cookie, or the :option:`--username`
and :option:`--password` options.


.. _guessing-fields:

Auto-Setting Summary and Description
====================================

The summary and description of a review request can be automatically
set ("guessed") based on the posted commit by using the
:option:`-g/--guess-fields <-g>`, :option:`--guess-summary`, or
:option:`--guess-description` options.

This saves some time when creating a review request by allowing you to write
a thorough summary and description only once in the commit, and reusing it for
the review request.

This feature only works for SCMs where you're posting commits, instead of
changes from a working directory. For example, Git, Mercurial and Bazaar.

.. tip::

   :option:`-g/--guess-fields <-g>` implies :option:`--guess-summary` and
   :option:`--guess-description`. Generally, you'll want to use it instead
   of the more specific options.


.. _guessing-behavior:

Controlling Guessing Behavior
-----------------------------

.. versionadded:: 0.6

The guessing options can each take a value to control when guessing is done:

* ``yes`` --
  Guessing will be used when creating or updating the review request.

* ``no`` --
  Guessing will not be used. This is useful for overriding a default
  (see :ref:`configuring-guessing-defaults`).

* ``auto`` --
  Guessing will be used only if creating a new review request,
  and not when updating.

You can specify a value when using either short-form or long-form arguments.
For example::

    $ rbt post --guess-fields=no

By default, if no guessing options are specified, ``--guess-fields=auto`` will
be implied. This allows you to run the following and have it automatically
fill in the summary and description::

    $ rbt post

If specifying a guessing argument without a value, ``yes`` will be implied
instead, forcing the fields to be updated, regardless of the default. For
example::

    $ rbt post -g


.. _configuring-guessing-defaults:

Configuring Defaults
--------------------

.. versionchanged:: 0.6

Projects that want to change the default guess behavior can set the
``GUESS_FIELDS``, ``GUESS_SUMMARY``, and ``GUESS_DESCRIPTION`` settings
in :file:`.reviewboardrc`. These accept ``'yes'``, ``'no'``, and ``'auto'``
values.

On RBTools 0.6 or higher, the default is ``'auto'``. On older versions,
the default was ``False`` (equivalent to ``'no'``).

Setting ``GUESS_FIELDS`` will imply setting ``GUESS_SUMMARY`` and
``GUESS_DESCRIPTION``. Rarely will you need to set anything but
``GUESS_FIELDS``.

For example, to default to guessing fields for review requests that are either
newly created or being updated, you can use::

    GUESS_FIELDS = 'yes'


.. _automating-rbt-post:

Automating rbt post
===================

It's possible to automate :command:`rbt post` on a user's behalf. This can
be useful from a repository's :term:`post-commit hook` to automatically
create or update a review request. This works through a combination of a
special Review Board user and the :option:`--submit-as` option.

To set this up, first register a new user. This user will be specific to
your script, and will have special permissions, so make sure the password
is protected. You'll then want to grant the
:ref:`can-submit-as-user-permission` and
:ref:`can-edit-review-request-permission` to the user. This will give this
user to the ability to modify a review request as another user.

You can then invoke :command:`rbt post` by doing the following::

    $ rbt post --username=SPECIAL_USER --password=PASSWORD --submit-as=ANOTHER_USER

Of course, you can pass any other values as you see fit.

This will log in as ``SPECIAL_USER`` and perform operations as
``ANOTHER_USER``.

You can set the default for :option:`--submit-as` by setting ``SUBMIT_AS``
in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.


.. _rbt-post-default-options:

Default Options
===============

A number of options to :command:`rbt post` can be set by default in
:file:`.reviewboardrc`. These can go either in the repository's or the
user's :file:`.reviewboardrc` file.

The options include:

* ``BRANCH`` (:option:`--branch`)
* ``DEBUG`` (:option:`-d`)
* ``ENABLE_PROXY`` (:option:`--disable-proxy`)
* ``GUESS_DESCRIPTION`` (:option:`--guess-description`)
* ``GUESS_FIELDS`` (:option:`-g`)
* ``GUESS_SUMMARY`` (:option:`--guess-summary`)
* ``MARKDOWN`` (:option:`--markdown`)
* ``OPEN_BROWSER`` (:option:`-o`)
* ``P4_CLIENT`` (:option:`--p4-client`)
* ``P4_PASSWD`` (:option:`--p4-passwd`)
* ``P4_PORT`` (:option:`--p4-port`)
* ``PARENT_BRANCH`` (:option:`--parent`)
* ``PASSWORD`` (:option:`--password`)
* ``PUBLISH`` (:option:`-p`)
* ``REPOSITORY_TYPE`` (:option:`--repository-type`)
* ``SUBMIT_AS`` (:option:`--submit-as`)
* ``TARGET_GROUPS`` (:option:`--target-groups`)
* ``TARGET_PEOPLE`` (:option:`--target-people`)
* ``TRACKING_BRANCH`` (:option:`--tracking-branch`)
* ``USERNAME`` (:option:`--username`)


Options
=======

.. cmdoption:: -d, --debug

   Display debug output.

   The default can be set in ``DEBUG`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: -r, --review-request-id

   Existing review request ID to update.

.. cmdoption:: -u, --update

   Determine the existing review request to update.

.. cmdoption:: --server

   Specify a different Review Board server to use.

   The default can be set in ``REVIEWBOARD_URL`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: --disable-proxy

   Prevents requests from going through a proxy server.

   The default can be set in ``ENABLE_PROXY`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: --markdown

   Tells Review Board that the guessed description is valid Markdown
   and shouldn't be escaped.

   This only works for Review Board 2.0+.

   The default can be set in ``MARKDOWN`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: -p, --publish

   Publish the review request immediately after submitting.

.. cmdoption:: -o, --open

   Open a web browser to the review request page.

   The default can be set in ``OPEN_BROWSER`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: --target-groups

   Names of the groups who will perform the review.

   The default can be set in ``TARGET_GROUPS`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: --target-people

   Names of the people who will perform the review.

   The default can be set in ``TARGET_PEOPLE`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: --summary

   Summary of the review.

.. cmdoption:: --description

   Description of the review.

.. cmdoption:: --description-file

   Text file containing a description of the review.

.. cmdoption:: -g, --guess-fields

   Equivalent to setting both the :option:`--guess-summary` and
   :option:`--guess-description` flags.

   This can optionally take a value to control the guessing behavior.
   See :ref:`guessing-behavior` for more information.

   The default can be set in ``GUESS_FIELDS`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: --guess-summary

   Guess summary from the latest commit (bzr/Git/hg/hgsubversion only).

   This can optionally take a value to control the guessing behavior.
   See :ref:`guessing-behavior` for more information.

   The default can be set in ``GUESS_SUMMARY`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: --guess-description

   Guess description based on commits on this branch (bzr/Git/hg/hgsubversion
   only).

   This can optionally take a value to control the guessing behavior.
   See :ref:`guessing-behavior` for more information.

   The default can be set in ``GUESS_DESCRIPTION`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: --testing-done

   Details of testing done.

.. cmdoption:: --testing-done-file

   Text file containing details of testing done.

.. cmdoption:: --branch

   Affected branch.

   The default can be set in ``BRANCH`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: --bugs-closed

   List of bugs closed.

.. cmdoption:: --change-description

   Description of what changed in this revision of the review request when
   updating an existing request.

.. cmdoption:: --submit-as

   Username to be recorded as the author of the review request, instead of the
   logged in user. This is useful when used in a repository's post-commit
   script to update or create review requests. See :ref:`automating-rbt-post`
   for information on this use case.

   The default can be set in ``SUBMIT_AS`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: --username

   Username to be supplied to the Review Board server.

   The default can be set in ``USERNAME`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: --password

   Password to be supplied to the Review Board server.

   The default can be set in ``PASSWORD`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: --change-only

   Updates info from changelist, but does not upload a new diff (only available
   if your repository supports changesets).

.. cmdoption:: --parent

   The parent branch this diff should be against (only available if your
   repository supports parent diffs).

   The default can be set in ``PARENT_BRANCH`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: -I <file>, --include=<file>

   Include only the specified file in the diff. This argument can be passed in
   multiple times to include multiple files. This is only available with some
   SCM backends (Bazaar, CVS, Git, Mercurial, Perforce, and SVN).

.. cmdoption:: --tracking-branch

   Tracking branch from which your branch is derived (git only, defaults to
   origin/master)

   The default can be set in ``TRACKING_BRANCH`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: --p4-client

   The Perforce client name that the review is in.

   The default can be set in ``P4_CLIENT`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: --p4-port

   The Perforce servers IP address that the review is on.

   The default can be set in ``P4_PORT`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: --p4-passwd

   The Perforce password or ticket of the user in the P4USER environment
   variable.

   The default can be set in ``P4_PASSWD`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: --svn-changelist

   Generate the diff for review based on a local SVN changelist.

.. cmdoption:: --repository

   The name of the repository to look up when posting the change. This is
   the same name shown on the New Review Request page or in the repository
   configuration page.

   The default can be set in ``REPOSITORY`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

.. cmdoption:: --repository-url

   The url for a repository for creating a diff outside of a working copy
   (currently only supported by Subversion with specific revisions or
   :option:`--diff-filename` and ClearCase with relative paths outside the
   view). For Git, this specifies the origin url of the current repository,
   overriding the origin url supplied by the Git client.

   The default can be set in ``REPOSITORY_URL`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.

   Note that versions of RBTools prior to 0.6 used the ``REPOSITORY``
   setting in :file:`.reviewboardrc`, and allowed a repository name to be
   passed to :option:`--repository-url`. This is no longer supported in
   0.6 and higher. You may need to update your configuration and scripts
   appropriately.

.. cmdoption:: --diff-filename

   Upload an existing diff file, instead of generating a new diff.

.. cmdoption:: --basedir

   the absolute path in the repository the diff was generated in. Will override
   the detected path.

.. cmdoption:: --repository-type

   Specifies the type of repository in the current directory. In most cases
   this should be detected automatically, but some directory structures
   containing multiple repositories require this option to select the proper
   type. The :command:`rbt list-repo-types` command can be used to list the
   supported values.

   The default can be set in ``REPOSITORY_TYPE`` in :file:`.reviewboardrc`.
